+++
date = "2019-08-11T20:00:00-07:00"
draft = true
title = "Arctic Day 2"
categories = [ "Travel", "Arctic", "2019 Dempster Drive" ]
+++

This was the first day of our driving trip! We wanted to get an early start, so we set the alarm for 6:30. Patrick and I each had a quick shower, packed up and checked out by 7:00. We had agreed to pick Dan and Thyra up at 7:30, so with some time to spare we walked a couple blocks from the hotel to the Starbucks for a coffee and breakfast sandwich. We were remarking that this is probably one of the northernmost Starbucks locations in the world; though we needed to confirm that when we got back. While we were walking to breakfast we passed the Whitehorse Pride intersection, with both rainbow and trans crosswalks. This was an unexpected but nice bit of innclusiveness in the Arctic. After having a quick breakfast we headed to Jeremy's house, where we picked up Dan, Thyra and some camping supplies. The back of the car was a bit full by the time we had everything backed in but it hardly felt cramped in the vehicle as we headed out.

We had a coulpe small stops before leaving Whitehorse - a grocery store and the gas station. We picked up some fresh fruits, cold cuts, cheeses and ice at the Save on <TODO: location>, then filled up both the car and a jerry can with gas that we had borrowed from Jeremy. Shortly after 9:00 we pulled onto the Yukon highway and began heading to Dawson City. I was starting off the day by driving, which was an easy task in the Yukon XL. We saw a deer on the road shortly after leaving Whitehorse, which was a nice way to start things off.

The road to Dawson was one lane in either direction, and well paved. The vehicle came with Android Auto, which was convenient as we had the directions programmed and the tunes flowing. It didn't take long before we were being treated to some spectacular views of some rolling hills/small mountains. We enjoyed the scenery for an hour or so before we reached our first stop, the Braeburn Lodge. This location was right on the highway, and had been recommended to us as a good place to get a cinnamon bun. The lodge was a bit of a one stop shop - it had gas, snacks, and a kitchen for food. We picked up a cinnamon bun that was the size of a pie to share, and split it four ways and snacked on it on a picnic bench just outside the lodge. We got back into the car and continued on. Shortly after the Braeburn Lodge we reached our first photo lookout, as the road began winding down into a river valley. It was breathtakingly beautiful; after snapping a few photos we got back into the vehicle and continued on.

We passed a few small towns as we continued north, including Carmacks, ... and .... This was going to be the longest distance we had to cover on our trip, however it was also the only day that the road was paved so we made good time as we drove on. We stopped at a few other lookouts along the way, including a really impressive on above X.

We stopped for lunch around 1 PM, just outside Mayo (what was the town?). We made sandwiches and coffee, and enjoyed a bit of a break from the car. We spent about 45 minutes at lunch, then packed up and got back on the road. Shortly after lunch we started driving through some heavy rains, which was really the only bad weather we had on the drive this day. We arrived in Dawson City shortly after 16:15, and drove to our hotel, named [Bombay Peggy's](). This hotel used to be the site of the Dawson City brothel, where the matron (named Peggy) ran her business. It is now a boutique hotel, where the rooms are restored to feel like it was the turn of the century. Patrick and I each had single rooms on the top floor (I was in the Snug while Patrick was in the Lookout room), while Dan and Thyra shared the Lipstick room on the second floor. We dropped our stuff off in the hotel, then went and walked around the town.

Downtown Dawson feels very rustic - the roads are dirt, and the sidwalks are just boardwalks in front of the businesses. We started by walking to the river, where we saw a paddlewheeler going upstream. We walked by a few businesses on the main street, then visited the Northwest Territories Visitor Centre where we picked up some information about Inuvik and Tuk. We then walked around the rest of downtown, taking photos of some of the old-time buildings and scoping things out. We went back to the hotel for a couple of drinks during the bar's happy hour, then walked to dinner at the [Dirty <something>](). This Greek restaurant had been recommended to us by Jeremy and Bonnie, and it was actually pretty tasty.

After dinner we went to the Downtown Hotel, a bar that is a staple of downtown Dawson. We sat down just after 20:00, and ordered a drink. There was some live music, where the performer was a decent guitar player but not a great singer. We came to this bar in particular in order to have their Sourtoe cocktail. This cocktail is a bit of a local tradition; I had read about it online and both Jeremy and Bonnie recommended we try it. The drink is not a cocktail in the traditional sense, it is a shot of a hard liquor of your choice that is drank with a mummified human toe put in it. The toe is administred by an elderly gentlemen who only goes by the nickname 'The Captain', and he had a reserved table at the back of the bar. Starting at 9 PM, you can bring a shot to his table, where he will record your information, place the toe into the shot, and you get to drink this shot. If the toe doesn't touch your lips, it doesn't count, and there is a fine for eating the toe (which has apparently happened on more than one occasion). Both Dan and I chose to do this with a shot of Yukon Gold whiskey, a sweet whiskey popular in the area and the classic choice of liquor to pair with a toe. Neither Thyra nor Patrick decided to partake in this part of Dawson lore. There were a few people ahead of us in the line to do the shot, but it was a short wait until Dan was up. He did the shot first, and had an issue where the toe got stuck in the glass and wouldn't touch his lips - he had to hit the glass several times to have it fall down and have it count. I went after him, and having learned from Dan's experience I quickly flung the glass back so the toe would fall the first time. We were awarded certificates and were numbered - I was the 90xxx person to have done this particular activity.

After completing the Sourtoe cocktail we left, and went back to our hotel where we had one final nightcap at the hotel bar. We headed to bed around 11 PM, having had a busy day of driving and touring.
