+++
date = "2019-08-12T20:00:00-07:00"
draft = true
title = "Arctic Day 3"
categories = [ "Travel", "Arctic", "2019 Dempster Drive" ]
+++

This was the day our drive started in earnest. We were going to be leaving Dawson City early, and driving up to the Eagle Plains lodge. I set my alarm for 7:00, got up, showered, packed, and headed down to the lobby about 10 to 8:00. The hotel staff had laid out warm croissants and bits of cheese in front of every room, so I had a coffee and a snack in the lobby while I waited for everyone else. We loaded up the car and checked out just after 8:00, and then headed to [Triple J's]() for breakfast. This restaurant was recommended by Jeremy as a good place to grab a bite to eat, and we certainly enjoyed our meals there. I had a breakfast wrap with eggs, bacon, cheese and salsa and a generous serving of home fries, which was very tasty. I wasn't able to finish the hash browns as the serving was too big. After breakfast we filled up the car and were on the road to the Dempster highway start shortly after 9:00.

The Dempster highway starts about 40 km south of Dawson with a turnoff that also has a gas station, but we had been warned that the gas station may not be open so we filled up in Dawson. We got out of the car right at the start of the highway and took a photo with the marker sign, then started driving the Dempster! Dan was behind the wheel. The paved portion of the road extended for maybe a couple kilometres before it turned into gravel. Once the road turned to gravel it was still fairly well paved, and we were cruising at roughly 80 km/h through the morning. We were on the lookout for animals as we drove along, while also enjoying the gorgeous scenery. There is a ton of wildlife that lives along the Dempster, and we were hoping to catch sight of some animals on our drive. The road was not super busy as we went along, though there was some traffic.

The drive was pretty uneventful for the first stretch. Our first major stop was at the Tombstone Territorial Park, where we arrived shortly after 11:00. The visitor centre here was quite new and beautifully constructed. We got out of the car, stretched our legs, took some photos of the surrounding mountain range, and toured throug the visitor centre. We had a beautfully sunny midday at this point, and decided it would be nice to do a bit of walking in the park. We moved the car from the visitor centre to the Tombstone campground parking lot, a few hundred metres up the road, then Patrick and I set off on a hiking trail that went up a river. We got some great shots of the river valley, the river itself, etc. The trail was an out-and-back style that was marked as having a round trip distance of 3.4 km, and we took just about an hour to go to the end and come back. There was some scrambling down to reach the riverbed at the end of the trail, but other than that it was a pretty easy route. There were some boardwalks towards the end which allowed us to avoid some boggy sections of the trail. We got back to the car around 12:30, then continued on.

After leaving the Tombstone campground the highway climbs up the end of the river valley, and at the top there are some impressive views back towards the Tombstone mountain range. We stopped at the lookout here, grabbed a few photos, then continued driving. As we continued driving through the Tombstone Territorial Park we saw some pretty mountain passes, though many of the mountain peaks were a fair bit lower than what you might see in the Rockies. The road followed the <TODO: name> river for a fair bit of time, and as we continued we took some photos of the river and the peaks from the car.

We stopped for lunch after another hour and a bit of driving from the hike. We found a turnoff from the highway which led down to the river, and we drove down here to have our lunch. We setup a small camping stove and made ourselves coffee, then ate some cold cut sandwiches and snacks. The riverbed was quite a bit wider than the current river flow needed, so we got to do a bit of scrambling on the river rocks to get closer to the water. We took some photos, packed up the car, and continued on.

We left the Tombstone park and continued on. The road crossed several bridges. As we continued north we passed through the Taiga range, which was interesting in that its mountains felt as though they were in their last stages of existence. The mountains were hardly taller than hills, and mostly covered with gravel. The few trees that were growing were on the sheltered side of the mountain, and gravel was falling down the face. It felt like, in several thousand years, they wouldn't even be there anymore. The views were spectacular.

We left the Tagia mountain range, and climbed an escarpment to the Eagle Plains plateau. We stopped just at the top at a viewpoint, where we had a great view back towards the Ogilvie Mountain Range that we had just driven through. We continued along into a low tundra environment with very short, thin evergreen trees growing on either side of the road. It was interesting to see a long stretch that had clearly been burned in a forest fire several years ago; there were some small plants that had started growing back but many tree trunks were completely burned. We continued driving through this sort of environment until we arrived in Eagle Plains.

Eagle Plains is a small outpost located just over halfway between Dawson and Inuvik, and was constructed in 1978. The location was chosen as it has exposed bedrock, which gave them something to build on that did not require installing pilings through the permafrost. This outpost has a gas station, a 32 room hotel, a small restaurant and some camp sites, and is where we were going to spend the night. We arrived at 18:15, checked in, and got our stuff out of the car. We learned that the restaurant was only open until 20:00, so after unpacking and filling up the car with gas we went and had dinner. The food choices were pretty basic, as expected - diner food mostly. I had a beef dip sandwich with fries, which was actually pretty good. The food wasn't cheap but wasn't too expensive either - $17 for the meal. We had a couple beers and relaxed in the lounge afterwards, which was a nice way to unwind after a long day of driving.

After a bit of relaxing we grabbed our cameras and walked around the hotel, where there was a small lookout point constructed to give views of the terrain around us. It was quite pretty as the sun was getting low in the sky, but it was easily several hours until dark. We went back to the lounge and relaxed until we were all tired and headed to bed, around 21:00.
