+++
date = "2019-08-13T20:00:00-07:00"
draft = true
title = "Arctic Day 4"
categories = [ "Travel", "Arctic", "2019 Dempster Drive" ]
+++

Our fourth day was scheduled to take us into the Northwest Territories, where we would arrive in Inuvik after a long day of driving. We were up early, just after 6:15, then showered and got cleaned up. The Eagle Plains restaurant opened for breakfast at 7:00, and we sat down shortly after opening to enjoy a coffee and some food. It was raining outside when we woke up, so we decided to have a big breakfast here since we figured lunch would be difficult to do well in the rain. I had a ham and cheese omlette with hash browns and sourdough toast, which was well done. We paid, grabbed our bags, and checked out shortly after 8:00. It was raining out as we loaded up the car, and so we went quickly. There was a sign just after Eagle Plains that showed the kilometer marker numbers of known-bad sections of the highway, which we took a photo of for reference. We were the only car we saw heading north on the Dempster through the rain. I was driving, which was a bit nerve wracking as we started along.

The drive started with a downhill section, as Eagle Plains is at the highest point in the area. Visibility wasn't bad as we started driving, but the road was quite slick. It had been raining overnight, and a number of potholes were filled with water. It made it difficult to know which potholes to avoid and which were safe to go over, and so we didn't end up going much more than 40 km/hr over the first stretch. We carefully navigated the first couple of marked bad sections, which took us up and down a few fairly steep hills. We ended up taking almost an hour to travel the 35 kilometres to our first destination of the day - the beginning of the Arctic Circle. The Dempster Highway crosses the Arctic Circle about 35 km outside of Eagle Plains, and it marks the line past which the land experiences the midnight sun on June 21. The lookout point here is pretty clearly marked, however just before the sign visibility got very bad and the fog made it difficult to see anything beyond the immediate horizon. We got out of the car, took a few photos with the sign, then got back into the car as we couldn't see anything else.

The drive continued through heavy fog for the next hour and fifteen minutes. We did not see much of the northern part of the Yukon due to heavy fog and rain, and as we passed along the pass which connects the Yukon with the Northwest Territories the conditions were pretty poor. We weren't able to see the ground on either side of the road, and as the road ascended into the Northwest Territories we weren't able to see anything except the road ahead of us. We pulled past the border without issue and shortly afterwards arrived at a marker sign showing we were in the NWT. We stopped here for a quick photo, but since it was still raining and the clouds were low we didn't stay long and got back into the car. We stopped at the NWT sign at 11:15 Mountain Time, an hour later than we departed (since the NWT is an hour ahead of the Yukon).

We continued our drive, descending from the pass that we climbed to initially enter the NWT. As we descended the weather started to clear up, first the fog started disappating, and shortly after the clouds lifted and the rain stopped. It was about 15 minutes later, 11:30 Mountain, when Thyra called out that she saw a bear on the right side of the car, so I quickly checked behind, saw nobody, and pulled over to the side of the highway. After scrambling to put the telephoto lenses onto our cameras, we were able to confirm that she had indeed seen a bear, and we saw a smaller grizzly bear walking on the tundra. This was a pretty cool experience - we had been looking out for wildlife for several days to no avail, and shortly after entering into the NWT one of the most impressive animals showed itself to us. We watched as the bear walked around on the tundra for a bit, and after about 10 minutes of viewing and photographing the animal we continued along. During this short break no cars passed us in either direction, which really gives a bit of context into how quiet the road was during this part of the drive.

We drove for another hour or so until we reached the first of two ferries of the day, the Abraham Francis. This ferry crosses the Peel River, and is connected to both banks with a pair of cables that it uses for guidance. We were lucky that the ferry was just waiting for us on our side of the river, and it didn't take long for us to cross. As we had driven away from the border the terrain had shifted from tundra to low forests, which obscured our views away from the highway and we hadn't seen any other animals. Once we crossed the Peel River we continued driving towards Fort MacPherson. We made one quick stop at the Nitainlaii Territorial Park, a couple minutes after getting off the ferry, where we went into the campground office to acquire a stamp for our Northwest Territories passport <TODO: elaborate>. We met a nice man named Abraham who stamped our passports and gave us a bit of info about the area. We continued on to Fort MacPherson after a quick break here.

Fort MacPherson was a short 10 minute drive away from the park, and we stopped into town to collect another stamp. We went to the gas bar, and spoke with a young lady who stamped our passports. It was around lunchtime by this point, and we were looking for places to eat, but the lady informed us there were no open places to eat in Fort MacPherson. At this point in the day I had been driving for several hours, so Thyra offered to take the wheel and we swapped driving responsibilities. We got back into the car and took a quick detour to the cemetary to visit the memorial to the members of the NWMP 'Lost Patrol' <TODO: background>. While we were at the cemetary we saw a number of new graves that had been dug, and it was unfortunately apparent that many of these graves were for people in their teens or twenties. It was a sobering reminder of the hardships that these communities are facing today.

After a quick stop at the memorial we continued on. We drove for about fifteen or twenty minutes looking for a place to eat before we found a turnoff at the side of the road. It had started drizzling again as we left Fort MacPherson, so we had a quick lunch under the trunk of the vehicle of cold cuts and bagels. There were a few mosquitoes around that were becoming bothersome, so we didn't stop for more than ten or fifteen minutes before we drove on.

We drove for about 45 minutes before we arrived at our next stop, the ferry crossing at the Mackenzie River. The Dempster Highway crosses the Mackenzie River next to the town of Tsiigehtchic, and the MV Louis Cardinal has a 3 point route where it connects the community with both ends of the highway. We arrived at the ferry endpoint just after 14:50, and unfortunately we watched the ferry depart from our pickup point just as we were driving towards it. The ferry goes in a circle around the three points, so we figured we had a bit of time before we would be able to embark, so we got out of the car and stretched our legs. As we waited we noticed some bald eagles flying around the river, and we were able to get a few photos of these majestic birds as they played in the sky. There were other birds as well, including crows, seagulls, and falcons, that we watched fly around. We ended up needing to wait for almost an hour for the ferry to come back, as there was a bit of difficulty on the far bank loading up some heavy trucks on to the boat. Once the ferry reached our shore there was another delay as a camper with a trailer had managed to get itself wedged againsts the side of the boat, this took another ten minutes or so to clear. Due to the long delay the ferry crew ended up going right from one side of the highway to the other, which was something we appreciated after waiting almost 75 minutes from the time we arrived to the time we were driving agin.

Once we crossed the Mackenzie River we were on the final stretch of driving to Inuvik. We left the river crossing around 15:15, and with about 2.5 hours of driving remaining we were on a mission to make it there in reasonable time. The rain had stopped before we arrived at the Mackenzie River, and as we drove along the highway the sun was out giving us nice views of the surrounding scenery. We had done most of the elevation changes prior to reaching the Mackenzie, so as we drove the scenery was mostly flat. There was fairly heavy tree cover on both sides of the highway, so we didn't see any more animals as we drove. About 30 minutes outside of Inuvik we reached the Gwich'in Territorial Park, where we pulled over to the rest area and got out of the car. There were some hikes here, and so Patrick, Dan and I climbed the ridge to get a good look at some of the lakes that the highway had been laid out around. We spent about 15 or 20 minutes walking here, then got back into the car and finished the drive to Inuvik.

We pulled into Inuvik at approximately 18:30, and drove straight to the restaurant we were eating at, named [Alestine's](). We had read good things online, and wanted to try and get a table before it got too much later in the evening. It was an interesting place, laid out with a patio and small enclosed building with tables, some benches around a campfire, and a schoolbus that housed the kitchen. All of the tables were full so we sat down at the campfire to wait for space. There was another individual sitting waiting for a table, and so we struck up a conversation with him. He was a doctor who had arrived in Inuvik that day for a week of clinic, and so was traveling alone. When a table finally freed up we invited him to sit with us, and we ended up having a great conversation with him over the course of the meal. The food was also great; we ended up all having the 'Inuit donut' as a dessert, which was fried dough with chocolate and caramel sauce. It was particularily tasty!

After dinner we went to our accomodations for the evening to check in. I had reserved us cabins at the [Arctic Chalet](), which was just on the outskirts of town. We checked in without issue, and brought our bags to our cabins. At this point in the evening Dan and Thyra decided to call it a day, as they were both quite tired and it was about 21:00, but Patrick and I were still energentic so we went for a walk to the end of the road near our cabins. Here we saw the river which, during winter, freezes to provide the ice road up to Tuktoyaktuk, and the road our cabins were on is apparently the starting point for this road. There was also a beached research ship, named the GSI Mariner, beside this river which was something to look at. We went back to the cabin, then decided to drive back into town.

We drove back to Inuvik and parked in front of the Igloo church, then wandered a bit through the town. We saw some interesting buildings, including the new school and the sports complex, as well as saw some interesting unique features of the town including the 'utilidors' <TODO: elaborate>. We also filled up the car. We found a rainbow crosswalk in town, which was a super surprising but nice thing to see.

We then decided to drive out to the airport, as it was still light out and we wanted to keep exploring. It took about 10 minutes to drive to the airport, and when we arrived a bit after 23:00 the parking lot was very quiet. We walked into the terminal, which was open, but there was absolutely nobody inside. It was actually kind of eerie, but interesting at the same time. I had never been in a completely empty terminal before! We got back into the car and returned to the cabin. By the time we got back it was almost 23:45, and while the sun had officially set the cloud cover prevented us from seeing the stars, which was unfortunate. We got cleaned up and went to bed after a long day.
