+++
date = "2019-08-15T20:00:00-06:00"
draft = true
title = "Arctic Day 6"
categories = [ "Travel", "Arctic", "2019 Dempster Drive" ]
+++

This was officially the midpoint of our trip - we had reached our driving destination and were beginning the return trip today. We had a lazy morning, not waking up until 09:00, then made breakfast at the apartment. The rental was billed as a bed and breakfast, however they did not cook breakfast for you, instead we had the required ingredients in the fridge and made breakfast ourselves. It was actually a pretty convenient arrangement. We cooked up some bacon with scrambled eggs, then made coffee and toast and had a good hot breakfast. After eating we cleaned up, showered and loaded up the car, and pulled away from the apartment just after 11:00.

Our first stop in Tuk was going to be a fur store that Thyra wanted to visit, however when we pulled up it was closed. We were also planning on watching an Arctic sports demonstration at the sod house, however due to the rain and wind it was cancelled so we moved on to the third planned event of the morning - a craft market at the village hall. The market wasn't scheduled to start until 13:00, and it was maybe 11:10 at this point, but the ladies at the visitor centre suggested we could check with people at the hall whether the event was still going to happen. When we pulled up to the hall, however, it was completely closed, so we decided against waiting and began driving back down to Inuvik.

The return drive was fairly slow, it took about two hours to get back. Patrick was driving and I was riding shotgun. The overnight and morning rain had made the highway a fair bit slipperier than it had been yesterday, so Patrick took the drive pretty carefully. We didn't end up seeing any wildlife - we figured that with the poor weather it was unlikely to see animals out and about. The road was less busy than it had been the day before, presumably for the same reason.

We pulled into Inuvik just after 14:00, and started by washing off the car and filling it up. The rain and mud on the road had covered most of the side windows, making it hard to see who was around us, so it was important to give them a good clean. We then picked up some lunch supplies for the drive back to Dawson at the NorthMart; Patrick and I made some sandwiches with cold cuts and cheese in the parking lot. We then drove off to the Inuvik Satellite Station <TODO: elaborate>, as there was a tour there starting at 15:00.

We arrived at the satellite facility just at 15:00, and had to walk quickly to catch up with the tour group as they had just left. There were 4 13 metre satellite transmitters at the site, and the tour guide talked to us about the facility, what they were used for, etc. He worked for the Canadian project, there was also a German one, a Sweedish one, etc. Each dish had a really cool painting on the inside of the dish - we learned that these were contributed by the 3 major ethnic groups in the area (Gwitch'in, Inuvalit, Metis) and a fourth non-denominational one for everyone else. The art pieces comprise one of the biggest art displays in the North. They were printed on stickers in Ottawa, then shipped here, where they were installed in hundreds of pieces. They had to wait for each dish to not be actively used, put it in it's unused position (180 degrees), quickly install one or two pieces, then put it back in service as the satellite passed overhead. The walking tour lasted for about 35 minutes, afterwards we got back into the car and went back into Inuvik.

We had a brief stop at a souvenir shop, whose most notable souvenir was a novelty hoody from the "University of Tuktoyaktuk", aka Tuk U.

We then went to the Aurora Research Station, where we walked through their gardens and then into the building. <TODO: what does this building do?> We missed a tour of the facility yesterday as we were in Tuk, but we were allowed to explore and we did so, walking through, reading some research posters, etc. Dan and Thyra got to talking with the receptionist while Patrick and I were reading some of the posters, and learned a bit more about the researches and this support building. As we were chatting with the receptionist we met the lady whose mother we had met in the greenhouse the day before, which was a funny coincidence. We spent about 30 minutes here before heading out.

We checked in at the Arctic Chalet, where we were given the same cabins as on our way up. We then went to dinner, back at Alestine's. I had the fish and chips for dinner with a carrot cake slice for dessert, and both were tasty. When we got back to the cabin we played some more liar's poker while we drank the rest of the bourbon, and then called it a night around 21:00.
