+++
date = "2019-08-16T20:00:00-06:00"
draft = true
title = "Arctic Day 7"
categories = [ "Travel", "Arctic", "2019 Dempster Drive" ]
+++

We drove the first half of the Dempster back today. We got up around 7:30, got ready to leave, and had a quick breakfast of bagels and coffee in the cabins. At 8:30 we walked over to the Arctic Chalet to check in with Judi. The Arctic Chalet isn't just a place that rents cabins - they also breed and raise sled dogs for people to use in the winter. In order to keep the dogs well exercised they run the sled dog teams even in the summer, however they don't pull sleds, instead they pull multi-person ATVs. When the weather is good they let guests ride along, and the weather was good this morning! Starting at 8:30 they began harnessessing up the dogs and attaching them in their teams, and about 8:45 we got onto the side-by-sides and were off! While the dogs normally pull the sled on their own power in the winter, in the summer a person drives the ATV and lets the dogs run without really doing any pulling. This is because the ATV is quite a bit heavier than a sled would be, and without the ice to glide on the resistence offered by the tires is also quite a bit stronger. The trip went up to the Inuvik golf course, looped around behind the driving range, then briefly paused for us to swap places and then was off back to the cabins. All in all it was about 30 minutes of time, which was a fun way to partake in a typical Arctic activity!

After we got back from the dogsled ride we piled into the car and began our return trip on the Dempster. It wasn't raining as we left, but it had been raining the night before so the roads were a bit wet and slippery. I was behind the wheel, and for the first hour or so out of Inuvik I don't think we went faster than 60 km/h. The vehicle was slipping a fair bit as we were leaving Inuvik, so I put it into 4 wheel drive mode - the decrease in fuel economy was a tradeoff I was happy to make to avoid sliding out on the road. We had more than enough fuel on the way up so I wasn't worried about running out of gas. The driving went smoothly though, it just required attention. The weather was grey but we could see the red and yellow starting to appear on the landscape, making for some gorgeous driving.

We pulled up to the ferry on the Mackenzie River just after it had departed from our landing, so we parked the car and stretched our legs. The rain had stopped by this point, but it was still fairly overcast. The ferry visited both the far side of the Dempster and the <TODO: community spelling ending in Chic> landing before coming back to our point; it took about 45 minutes to complete the loop. We were the first car on the ferry, which gave us a good view of the trip over. We landed around 11:20. Once landing we continued on, passing by Fort MacPherson and then taking the ferry across the Peel River. We completed this crossing at 12:30. At this point in the day I gave up the car keys and Thyra took over.

We drove for about 5 minutes past the ferry before we found a passing area to pull off at, where we had a quick lunch. It was fairly windy and cool so we quickly boiled water for coffee, had sandwiches with cold cuts, then packed up the car and continued on. This break couldn't have lasted more than 20 minutes, but we were all pretty cold after it. We continued driving, heading towards the NWT/Yukon border. We were on the road for about 40 minutes, driving through mostly tundra, before we came across a small hill with a side road. We decide to drive up the side road in order to get a better look out over the valley, and once we reached the top we discovered an old quarry that presumably was mined to get the dirt for the road. We spent about 15 minutes here walking around and getting photos of the scenery around us. We had a good view of the Dempster winding up as it climbed out of the valley, and it was cool to get a photo of this. The weather was still overcast and a bit windy but it wasn't raining.

We continued out of the valley and began climbing into a mountain range near the border of the NWT. After about 5 minutes of driving we came across a river we had seen on the drive down, and pulled off into a siding. Here we were able to see both back into the valley as well up into the mountain pass we were about to drive through, and got some good photos of the scenery. We also took this opportunity to have a quick walk along the tundra. This was a really interesting experience - the surface was mostly moss and small shrubs, so walking on this was very soft and spongy. It was important to look closely for puddles as some areas had accumulated water of the past several days of rain. It would have been very difficult to run with any sort of speed on this terrain as it was very cushiony and you didn't get a lot of momentum from any step. After spending a few minutes here we drove up into the clouds that were hanging around the top of the pass.

As we drove down from the pass we followed a small river, for the first part of the tundra there were some beautiful reds and yellows in the tundra that the sunlight highlighted. At about 14:30 we pulled off the road again at a passing area to get some photos of a river and the surrounding tundra. We didn't spend more than 5 minutes here before continuing on.

As we were driving through the tundra, around 14:45, Thyra called out that she thought she saw a bear and began slowing the car down. There were no vehicldes around us, so it wasn't very dangerous; we put on the 4 ways and pulled over to the side of the Dempster. We pulled out the telephoto lenses and confirmed that there was a grizzly foraging on a hill to the left of the car. We spent the next 15 minutes watching the bear wander around and taking photos. The bear was probably several hundred metres up the hill; even with the telephoto lens it wasn't possible to get a super detailed shot. The road was very quiet - nobody passed us in either direction during our photo stop. We didn't leave the vehicle, even though the bear was a fair distance away, just to be safe. We rolled on around 15:00.

At around 15:15 the road started climbing into the mountain range that separates the territories. There were some low-hanging clouds that we drove into just before reaching the NWT sign. We stopped here again for a few quick photos before continuing on into the Yukon. We crossed into the Yukon through some heavy fog, visibility was probably no more than 20 or 30 feet in front of us. As we drove down the hill into the Yukon the clouds cleared, giving us some fantastic views into the Yukon. It was great to get a bit of better weather - on our drive up this area was also covered in dense cloud and we weren't able to see much. The sun came out, illuminating the valley in front of us.

The first part of the drive in the Yukon had some great weather. After driving for about 15 minutes, around 15:30, Patrick spotted another animal far out on the right hand side of the car. We pulled over and using our telephoto lenses confirmed that it was another grizzly bear, however it was too far to get any good photos of. We watched it for several minutes before continuing on.

We were only driving for another 10 minutes before we saw another car pulled off the road up ahead, and as we slowed down to pass we noticed a grizzly and it's baby foraging very close to the side of the road. We carefully pulled in behind the car that had stopped, put on our 4-way flashers, then rolled the windows on the left hand side of the car down. Using our telephoto lenses we were able to capture some great photos of these two majestic creatures looking for food together. They were quite close to the car so we didn't get out, but we were also careful not to reach out and provoke them in any way. We spent about 10 minutes watching the animals and taking photos before they wandered away from the road and we continued the drive.

About 40 minutes after we left the bear sighting, around 16:30, we saw an arctic fox on the road. We didn't stop but were able to get a few photos as it ran alongside the road. By this point the roads had gotten a fair bit worse - while the rain was holding off the road was quite saturated with water and had gotten very soft. We had a couple of dicey cases where we needed to leave the centre of the road to pass an oncoming car, and we almost sank into the soft shoulder, but with careful driving and 4 wheel drive we managed to make it through. We were certainly grateful we had a large 4WD vehicle; a car would have been in trouble on the roads.

We reached the Arctic Circle just before 17:00. The conditions on the road had improved by this point. The clouds had lifted a bit, giving us clear views all around the stopping point. We spent about 10 minutes walking around, taking some photos, and stretching our legs before the last leg of the drive of the day. About 10 minutes after crossing the Arctic Circle we came across a site we had seen a few times on the drive - a stretch of the highway that doubled as an emergency runway. There was a windsock and some bright orange cones marking the road for planes, and we took a couple photos as we drove along this stretch of the highway.

We pulled into the Eagle Plains parking lot shortly after 18:15. We got gas for the car, checked in, and then went to have dinner in the lounge. We had a few drinks after eating, and played some shuffleboard on the table they had set up. We didn't make it a late night; Patrick and I went for a quick walk around the hotel around 20:00, and were in bed by 21:00. I set my alarm for 1:30 the next morning - I was hoping to get a few photos of the night sky and the Eagle Plains area was perfect due to the low amount of light pollution. I woke up when my alarm went off; got dressed and made sure to put on both a toque and mitts, then took my camera and tripod outside. Unfortunately it was very cloudy; there was a solid layer of cloud blocking out any part of the sky. I got a few photos of the complex at night, and got a couple neat shots of where the cloud layer started far in the distance of the horizon, then went back to the warmth of my bed.