+++
date = "2019-08-14T20:00:00-06:00"
draft = true
title = "Arctic Day 5"
categories = [ "Travel", "Arctic", "2019 Dempster Drive" ]
+++

Our fifth day was scheduled to bring us to the goal of this trip - the Arctic Ocean. We were going to drive the new Inuvik Tuktoyaktuk highway, opened just 2 summers ago in 2017. We woke up at 7:00 to drizzly conditions, cleaned ourselves up and met up with Dan and Thyra just after 8:00. They were hoping to take a dogsled tour, as the cabins we stayed in train huskies and they run them every morning, but the weather led the owners to cancel the trip. Patrick and I had a breakfast of bagels and coffee in the cabin, then we packed everything up and headed in to Inuvik right at 9:00.

Our first stop of the day was the Inuvik visitor centre, where we got our passports stamped and got some good recommendations of things to do from the lady organizing <TODO: name>. After we got some ideas of things to do we walked through the visitor centre and learned a bit more about the environment and the culture of the indiginous peoples native to the area. One interesting thing we learned about were pingos <TODO: elaborate>. This would come in handy later in the day.

We left the visitor centre after about 30 minutes, and headed to the home of a lady named Mavis. We had been speaking with the lady at the visitor centre who suggested that Mavis would be a good person to see about souvenirs, and when we pulled up to her house she opened the door and welcomed us in. We learned that she used to work for the federal government, but in retirement acts as a place that individuals in the village bring their crafts for sale and she helps facilitate selling the art, clothing and crafts that people in the village make. She was quite a nice lady and provided a lot of insight into good things to do in Inuvik and in Tuk. Dan and Thyra ended up getting a few things from her, and we left her house shortly after 10:00.

The car had gotten quite dirty over the past few days of driving, and as a result we were all starting to get muddy as we loaded the car, got in and out of the vehicle, etc. This was something that had been annoying Patrick for a bit, so after leaving Mavis' place we drove to a coin-operated car washing station. We pulled up to one of the two spots (which was luckily empty), and Patrick had some fun cleaning all the dirt off the car. The pressure washer was pretty effective at getting off the major dirt, but it was too built up to fully clean. We were continuing our drive on the Inuvik Tuktoyaktuk highway in a few hours anyways so we didn't need to get the vehicle perfectly clean. We spent about half an hour here.

The next stop of the day was at the NorthMart, a combined grocery store, department store, and food court. We were curious to see what the average price of different staples would be in Inuvik, and we were able to see that some prices weren't significantly different while other prices (particularily on produce) was quite a bit higher than back home. A head of cabbage, for example, was going for $16. Dan and Thyra had a quick breakfast here, and we continued on to our next destination around 11:30.

We drove to an interesting site in Inuvik, a community greenhouse that was built into a converted hockey arena. This year the community garden started something new, and was running a pop-up cafe from 11:30 - 13:30 on Wednedays during the summer. We walked in to the space and saw they were selling a spaghetti lunch with kale salad, where all the vegetables had been grown locally in the garden. Patrick and I each ordered a lunch and a coffee while Dan and Thyra ordered one lunch to split, and we found a table in the greenhouse and we ate there. The table we sat at had a lady named Karin who was doing some painting, as we ate lunch we chatted a bit and learned more about her story. She had recently moved to Inuvik to be closer to her daughter, who worked at a research institute in town. It was nice to be able to chat a bit with her while we ate; and after we were done we walked around the garden a bit before we got into the car and began the drive up to Tuktoyaktuk.

The drive to Tuk took place on the Inuvik-Tuktoyaktuk Highway, which is technically separate from the Dempster. This highway was only opened in the summer of 2017, so the ability to drive to Tuk in the summer is a very recent change. The road itself was indistinguishable from the Dempster though - gravel roads built up on top of the permafrost. The conditions during the first half of the drive were pretty good, the road was smooth with very few potholes, however the later half of the road was not nearly as smooth. The weather was clear and overcast as we departed Inuvik, and with the open tundra we were hoping to see some wildlife. We did end up seeing a few types of birds in a couple of the many small lakes that you can see from the drive, however we did not see any larger animals. It ended up taking us just over two hours to make it up to Tuk; slightly after 15:15. We stopped at a lookout just before the town where we were able to see several large pingos, <TODO: define>.

After leaving the pingo lookout we drove for a couple minutes the stopped again, at the 'Welcome to Tuktoyaktuk' sign. We took several photos here, then got back in the car and drove into the town. We past the dump and several abandoned industrial sites on the road into the town, in the 90's there was some initial exploratory work done to determine the feasibility of drilling for oil and gas in the area, but once the sites shut down none of the buildings or equipment were removed so it is still visible near the town today. The first stop in town was our bed and breakfast, however the owner was not around so we continued on to the Tuk Visitor Centre. We stepped into the small building and spoke with the two ladies who were on duty; they gave us a list of things to do in the town. We wandered south to the Sod House, which is an exhibit demonstrating one of the permanent structures that the Inuvalik <TODO: sp> people used to construct. Inside the sod house was a young man who showed a number of tools that would have been used in the day to day lives of the Inuvalik people, explained a bit about the sod house, and also gave us some insight into both their traditional and current cultures. He went whaling with his family earlier in the year and they got a 10' one, apparently.

After leaving the sod house we drove around the town a bit, and headed to the RCMP detachment office. We had been informed that we could purchase some Tuk-branded clothing at the RCMP office, and when we pulled up we briefly chatted with a few officers who told us to walk on in. Inside we were able to look at what remained of their clothing supply, but we each got a hat to commemorate the trip. We then checked in with the manager of the bed and breakfast who told us she was now free, and so we drove over and checked in. We met Laverna out front of the unit, and she let us in. It was a lovely unit with lots of space. After checking in Patrick, Dan and I changed into our swim trunks, and we all drove out to the beach on the Arctic Ocean.

One of the many reasons for the trip was to say we went in the Arctic Ocean. When we were in the visitor center in Inuvik we had been warned to check with the visitor centre in Tuk as to where it was safe to swim, as the waves can be quite strong and a few people have passed away after being swept away while swimming in the Arctic Ocean. When we first went to the visitor centre in Tuk we received a map, and the ladies there marked on the map where it would be safe to go. We drove from the bed and breakfast to the marked beach, and pulled up to it. It was a short walk down to the beachfront from the car, which we tried to do quickly as we were just wearing flip flops and our swimming trunks. We found a log on the beach where we placed our flip flops and towels, and then took off our coats. It was a bit breezy which made us go quickly; once we had our coats off we quickly walked towards the water. I had my FauxPro in a waterproof case, and I wanted to make sure that I recorded the moment. I started recording, then walked into the water until I was about waist deep. The ground was partially rocky and partially sandy, and I decided that going any deeper would be a bit dicey. I handed my FauxPro to Dan, who had gone out slightly ahead of me, and then I took a couple seconds to catch my breath. Once I felt ready I jumped down into the water, making sure to fully immerse my head. It was pretty cold, and once I was under it didn't take me more than a couple seconds before I stood up, retrieved the camera, and quickly walked back to the shore and the warmth of my towel. We didn't stay long - once we'd all gotten our brief swims in we got dressed and got back in the car. We quickly drove home and had hot showers to help bring our core temperatures up. One interesting thing was how little salt the Arctic Ocean seemed to have - there was not the typical salty smell as we walked along the beach, and after getting out of the ocean I didn't feel terribly salty either. The short time I was in the ocean I didn't taste substantial salt either, which was a bit unusual.

Once we were all warmed up and dressed again we headed out again. By this point it was about 18:00. We were going to get dinner, but on the way we drove out to the point and got a photo of the Arctic Ocean sign. Tuk doesn't have a lot of choices for places to eat, and based on what we had heard from people in Inuvik we decided to visit a food truck named [Grandma's Kitchen]. This food truck was located at the end of a road in Tuk, and was basically a food truck attached to a house, where the chef (Grandma) lived. We ordered at the food truck entrance, and were instructed to wait for the food in an enclosed deck just behind the house. There were a few others on the deck eating their food; we struck up a small conversation with them while we waited. The food came quickly; Patrick and I both ordered the fish and fries, made from fish caught just off the coast. We quite enjoyed our meals, but Thyra was a bit disappointed with the chicken fingers she had ordered. We left shortly after 19:00 and returned to the bed and breakfast.

There was one last item that we had ordered from Grandma's Kitchen that we chose to save until we were back in the apartment to try. We ordered 6 pieces of muktuk to try, and they had been served in small cubes with toothpicks attached. Muktuk is a traditional Inaqualit dish, and it is the raw skin and blubber from a whale. <TODO: more on muktuk> I was excited to give it a try, while both Patrick and Thyra were a bit leery of it. Dan took the first sample, while I had the second. I would compare its flavour to that of canned tuna; it definitely had a chewier texture than tuna however. I didn't think it was bad, and while both Patrick and Thyra ended up trying it neither of them really cared for it. I finished the two remaining pieces as I thought it was pretty decent.

The night was still early, so after our muktuk tasting we played some games, drank some bourbon and ate some snacks. We played both rufflewire and liar's poker, which were a lot of fun. Dan and Thyra had never played rufflewire before, but I had played it a fair bit with Todd, Patrick and Jeff in the past. Only Patrick had played liar's poker before, and there was a small learning curve on that game, but once it got going it was a lot of fun. We ended up playing games until just before midnight, when everyone else got tired and called it a night. I spent the last hour or so of the day working on catching up with some blogging, and then I took my camera and tripod out into the dusk and took a few night photos. It was unfortunately a cloudy night so I didn't manage to get any photos of the stars, but I did get some neat photos of the village at night. I packed things in around 01:30, exhausted and ready for bed.
